# Approov Token Quickstart

This quickstart is for developers familiar with NodeJS who are looking for a quick intro into how they can add [Approov](https://approov.io) into an existing project. This will guide you through the necessary steps for adding Approov to an existing NodeJS GRPC server.

## TOC - Table of Contents

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Approov Setup](#approov-setup)
* [Approov Token Check](#approov-token-check)
* [Try the Approov Integration Example](#try-the-approov-integration-example)


## Requirements

To complete this quickstart you will need

* NodeJS - Follow the [official installation instructions](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* Approov CLI - Follow our [installation instructions](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-installation/#approov-tool) and read more about each command and its options in the [documentation](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-cli-tool-reference/)

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Approov Setup

To use Approov with the NodeJS API server we need a small amount of configuration.

### Configure API Domain

Approov needs to know the domain name of the API that will be protected and for which Approov will issue tokens.

Add it with this command:

```text
approov api -add your.api.domain.com
```

Adding the API domain also configures the [dynamic certificate pinning](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-usage-documentation/#approov-dynamic-pinning), out of the box.

> **NOTE:** By default the pin is extracted from the public key of the leaf certificate served by the domain, as visible to the box issuing the Approov CLI command and the Approov servers.

### Approov Secret

The NodeJS API server needs the Approov Base64 encoded secret that will be used to verify the tokens generated by the Approov cloud service.

Approov tokens are signed with a symmetric secret. To verify tokens, we need to retrieve the secret using the [Approov secret command](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-cli-tool-reference/#secret-command) and plug it into the NodeJS API server environment to check the signatures of the [Approov Tokens](https://www.approov.io/docs/latest/approov-usage-documentation/#approov-tokens) that it processes.

Retrieve the Approov secret with:

```text
approov secret -get base64
```

> **NOTE:** The `approov secret` command requires an [administration role](https://approov.io/docs/latest/approov-usage-documentation/#account-access-roles) to execute successfully.

#### Set the Approov Secret

Open the `.env` file and add the Approov secret to the var by replacing the string  `approov-base64-encoded-secret-here`:

```text
APPROOV_BASE64_SECRET=approov-base64-encoded-secret-here
```

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Approov Token Check

The main functionality for the Approov token check is in the file [src/approov-protected-server/token-check/hello-server-protected.js](/src/approov-protected-server/token-check/hello-server-protected.js). See the `verifyApproovToken()` function to find the code for the check.


To check the Approov token we will use the [auth0/node-jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#readme) package, but you are free to use another one of your preference.

Add this function to your code:

```javascript
const verifyApproovToken = function(approovTokenHeader) {

  // Check that Approov token is present
  if (!approovTokenHeader || !approovTokenHeader.length) {
    // You may want to add some logging here.
    return false;
  }

  // Check that Approov token is valid
  try {
    const approovToken = approovTokenHeader[0]
    var decodedClaims = jwt.verify(approovToken, approovSecret, {algorithms: ["HS256"]});
  } catch(err) {
    // You may want to add some logging here.
    return false;
  }

  // The Approov token was successfully verified
  return true;
}
```

Now you just need to invoke it from the GRPC handler you want to be protected:

```javascript
function handleGRPC(call, callback) {

  // Get the Approov token from the metadata and check its presence and validity
  var approovTokenHeader = call.metadata.get('approov-token');
  if (!verifyApproovToken(approovTokenHeader)) {
    const error = new Error("Unauthorized");
    console.log(error.message);
    callback(error, null);
    return;
  }

  // The Approov token is valid, continue with the call
  ...
}
```

> **NOTE:** When the Approov token validation fails we return an `Error("Unauthorized")` with no further information regarding the cause, because we do not want to give clues to an attacker about the reason the request failed.

A fully working example for a simple Hello World server can be found at [src/approov-protected-server/token-check](/src/approov-protected-server/token-check).

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)


## Test your Approov Integration

In the examples following below we show how to use [grpcurl](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl) to make the API requests. You can also use [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) which has recently added [GRPC support](https://blog.postman.com/postman-now-supports-grpc/). Just remember that you need to adjust the URLs and tokens in the examples to match your deployment.

#### With Valid Approov Tokens

Generate a valid token example from the Approov Cloud service:

```text
approov token -genExample your.domain.com
```

Then make the GRPC request with the generated token included in the metadata as an "Approov-Token" header, add
```text
  -H 'Approov-Token: <your_valid_token_example_here>'
```
to the `grpcurl` command, where `<your_valid_token_example_here>` is replaced by the Approov token retrieved in the previous step.

The GRPC request should be accepted by the server and the expected response to the GRPC should be returned.

#### With Invalid Approov Tokens

Generate an invalid token example from the Approov Cloud service:

```text
approov token -type invalid -genExample your.domain.com -type invalid
```

Then make the request with the generated token by adding:

```text
  -H 'Approov-Token: <your_invalid_token_example_here>'
```

to the request. This should fail with an Unauthorized error.

[TOC](#toc---table-of-contents)
